the United Nations has completed its
investigation into 19 staff members of
the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
who Israel accused of being involved in
the October 7th attack they found no or
insufficient evidence to support the
allegations against 10 of its staff they
found evidence that nine may have been
involved and have terminated their
employment un employees around 13,000
people Gabriel Alando joins us now from
unhq the very latest on this in Clarity
is what the International Community
wanted will these findings close the
chapter on this particular episode
Gabriel listen I think so uh because uh
after these allegations were made by
Israel in late January more than 12
countries suspended funding to unra uh
that was a critical Lifeline for unra to
give Aid to Palestinians in Gaza that
needed it the most so since then all but
one country has resumed funding again to
uh uh to unra the only one that hasn't
is the United States and I doubt that
these findings are going to change
anything in to in terms of countries uh
wanting to reevaluate that
overwhelmingly the International
Community has come out and said in the
last few weeks and months that they need
to support unra for the work that it is
doing uh in Gaza and elsewhere and so I
think that this this this report uh will
certainly be taken in various different
ways but I think that what you're going
to see is countries accepting the
findings as best as they can and saying
let's put this uh situation behind us
and move forward it would be nice to put
the situation behind us I'm sure that's
what the UN would like but is that what
the UN will
get well listen I mean you you can split
these numbers however you want here but
the bottom line is the facts that the UN
came out with were 10 individuals were
there was no evidence linking them to
being part of any attacks on October 7th
now there were nine and this is key that
may have been a part of the October 7th
attacks according to the internal un
review that has been going on for more
than six months now now the secretary
General's spokesperson was asked about
this he said were they part of it or may
be part of it he said listen we did an
investigation we think there might be
enough evidence to link them to perhaps
partaking in the October 7th attacks and
so that's why they're being fired but
it's important to point out that the
evidence that Israel says they have
linking these uh individuals uh was
never really released to un
investigators it's still in the hands of
the Israelis so uh the Israelis
basically s the UN your people have been
involved in this now you go investigate
and try to find out for yourself and
that's what the UN has B basically been
trying to do in summary here though this
has certainly been a traumatic situation
for the UN whenever staff members are
accused of wrongdoing or being taking
part in a violent act like this it it
leads to ramifications whether it's
Justified or not but it's also important
to point out that more than 200 unra
staff have been killed since October 7th
due to Israeli bombardment uh of Gaza so
I think the message from the UN and
particularly from the Secretary General
irregardless of this report is going to
be a ceasefire and a ceasefire now
something that he's been calling for for
months now gabrielo there at unhq thanks
Gabriel let's join Mar Bashar Al jazer
senior political analyst who joins us
now via Skype from Paris hi Maran and
are not completely exonerated but where
do you see the position of the agency
Now sort of moving forward and with the
information that Israel says it still
has being you might say waved in the air
or rattled like a saber
I actually uh I disagree with the
premise of your question so
exonerated it shouldn't have been on the
stand in the first place when did you
ever hear of organization an institution
an international one working in a in a
war zone with 30,000 staff when nine of
them were suspected of something how
does that put the entire organization on
on the stand how does that make the
organiz ation accountable for all the
troubles with the Middle East how does
that make the the the organization that
is known for its transparency and
accountability become uh become the the
perpetrator of uh of whatever when when
when most of the parties at least the
Israelis in this
sense are are are an institution of
criminality are are carrying war crimes
are carrying genocide in Gaza are
killing uh hwa sty I don't think the hwa
needed to be exonerated at all and those
who accused it did not mean for it to be
exonerated because the entire
accusations the entire list of
accusations was all cooked up it's
Shameless it's totally Shameless and
it's not not
unexpected of Israel to do that you know
Israel has bar is ment to Li that's what
do why why because that's the nature of
Israeli hbar it's to lie and it lied
about on and it implicated it because it
hates Ona and it doesn't want a UN
agency to tackle the question of refugee
the question is why did these Western
Powers followed Israel like
sheep like sheep they did not look into
those accusations they did not look into
these shameful Wall Street Journal
report the New York Times report that
were not substantiated there was another
Dark Day for journalism just like it was
a dark day for West democracies claim to
be democracies while accepting the fact
that an institution of 30,000 employees
could not potentially we don't even know
yet could have nine of its staff run
Rogue let's
say and of course what we are seeing
again still though you know even while I
I ask these questions to get an elicit
elicit a response from you uh that our
viewers would understand as well uh
Marin is the fact that the countries
that did uh defund unoa have slowly one
by one gone back to funding it again
because they haven't been offered any
evidence they haven't been offered
anything by Israel
and again they have a position where
their own respective publics are
questioning their position and and
public opinion has been a great deal a
factor in the way that countries have
had to start refunding uh funding sorry
un again public
pressure look we have to put few
Concepts to rest when we address issues
like that relating to the United
Nations a few Western powers and their
clients are not not the International
Community that's not the International
Community if you Western Powers devising
A rules-based
system that basically in some of its
facets contradicts international law is
not the International Community few
Western powers that appease a genocide
in Israel are not the International
Community few Western powers that
overnight turned off the assistance to a
viable indispensible UN agency be on the
basis of false reports and hasbara
Israeli
propaganda they are not the
International Community the
International Community did not look at
Ana and said oh my God this is terrible
let's look into that let's put it on the
trial let's investigate it that's not
what happened what happened is the
Secretary General of the United Nations
decided under pressure from important
donors and they happen to be Western
powers to look into those issues the
issue is not if that there are nine
people that may have been involved in
the October 7th the issue one why aren't
they 90 why aren't they
900 they are part and parcel of the two
plus million people living in an open
prison called Gaza their family members
were killed their family members were
displaced their family members were put
in prison their family members could not
find work or even food so the idea that
nine out of 13,000 or N Out of 30,000
were found to have maybe been involved
in whatever capacity we don't know in
October 7 that is not an issue
concerning hona as a un agencies and
certainly once again those who went
along Israel's false Shameless shameful
accusations against you they're the ones
who should be put on the stand they're
the one who should be shameful they're
the ones who should be investigated the
Israeli government is one of today it's
one of certainly I mean it's almost
consensus in including in the western
public opinion is a criminal Enterprise
but Western Society Western countries
Western Government continue to provide a
to it they don't ask themselves what the
Israeli Army has done in Gaza the
Israeli Army is far more dangerous than
on don't we all
agree indeed let's see what people do
agree and don't agree on in the days
ahead but for the moment M Bashar thanks
for joining us in
pus make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler